---
layout: post
title: "Inktober final stretch"
date: 2020-10-26 0000
description: The final week of my inktober and a reflection on the images I've been selecting
img:  headers/lights.jpg
---
## I'm Almost Done!

As of right now I have completed my week 3 goals of drafting Chapter 3 and outlining Chapter 4. Through this process I've discovered a couple things, the first of which is that my execution of my original concept has taken on a life of its own and my story has drifted and developed independent of my original six page outline. Because of this, my concepts for the ending are pretty outdated and don't work anymore. The second thing I've discovered is that first drafts are BAD. Not bad in practice, but this is probably the worst draft of a written work I have composed since middle school, mostly because I've been doing academic and analytical writing for about seven years now and I'm well practiced at it. Creative writing is more of a speculative hobby of mine that I haven't practiced in years, which means my first shot at writing this is pretty terrible. Between these two factors of a draft that needs lots of revision, and outdated outlines for my finale, means that I've decided to cut Inktober short in order to have the best end-product as possible. 

I want to outline the beats that need to happen in Chapter 4, which is a bit of a flashback montage, and then the finale in Chapter 5. But after that, I need to go back and revise and rework what I've done before the end in order to have a good idea of what the finale should be. Theres lots of details and foreshadowing I need to go back and fix, as well as continuity things and a stronger plot. Once I have the structural basis set up for the final conflict, writing the resolution will be much easier. I have a sense that if I ignore my instinct now and buckle down to just finish the end, its going to be much more work to revise and rewrite the ending than it would be to just write it later based on the work I put into revision. 

However, I do need something to put into my interface so I have a proof of concept by the end of the semester, which is the agreed-upon goal that Michael and I have. So like I mentioned, I want to do outlines for Chapters 4 and 5, and then quick narrative summaries from an authorial perspective. That way, instead of me poorly trying to create a cohesive ending that works with all the other multimedia moving parts of the comic, I can instead offer something like an artist's statement of what should be there and how it should function to create that effect.

## Critical Reflection

So in a break from format, because my reflections have kind of stagnated yet again, I'm going to talk about the images I've been using as headers for the blog. The original concept was to select header images that I could reuse as chapter header images in the comic, so slowly I've been amassing an image for each chapter. I think as of right now, I have an image for every chapter except flashback 2 and I've been trying to stick to certain criteria. The first criterion is that I've been looking for images that are high-quality and detailed, so it feels like it represents a certain setting. Over the course of this month I've discovered my writing style isn't very good with descriptions so this is where most of the heavy lifting gets done for setting and tone. My second criterion is that I've also tried to keep it pretty generic, like avoiding images with easily identifiable places or iconic landmarks to prevent readers from bringing outside information and expectations to the comic. Finally, I've avoided images that have modern-day technology because that would conflict directly with the genre that I've cultivated in the narrative. 

So baded on these three points, I'm trying to walk a fine line of complementary rhetoric: I want the images to be detailed enough to conjure the image of the place in the story, without borrowing from the specifics of the real world, and adhering to the rules of the genre that I've established I'm working in. I think that this interplay between the choice of images and the development of the narrative has been interesting, especially as I've gone back and changed images as the story has taken twists and turns I didn't expect. The two are highly interconnected since they're directly adjacent to each other on the page, and support each other in a much more direct way than the interface. The interface sets the overall tone, while the images and text create the body of the work. 

While this is more of a footnote, I have been considering the interface and the web space while picking the images. This is more technical and less rhetorical, but I've only been selecting unlicensed photos so I can freely use and transform them how I want. I also have been sticking to photos that work well with website layouts, which is landscape photos and that are very high quality and somewhat stock-photo-y. 