---
layout: post
title: "Website Launched"
date: 2020-11-23 0000
description: First programming update
img: 
---
## November Progress and Wrapping Up

As always, unexpected obstacles have occurred in my creative process and I have spent a considerable chunk of November being sick. I don't have coronavirus, thankfully, but I have had a progression of other health problems so the amount of time I've been dedicated to this project has decreased from October's dedicated sprints. However, I'm feeling much better and spent a good chunk of the past week working on my website so I am pleased to say that I have a working prototype of my efforts up on GitHub pages now! (Here's)[https://sraybuck.github.io/webcomic/] the link to the page. All my draft content is up there and its currently linked using an archive page. The next step is to implement my animated map, come up with some good chapter titles, and then polish it where I can before the semester ends. All things considered, I have successfully created a working prototype of my webcomic, and I can effectively call this semester a success. 

## Critical Reflection

Since I have an almost finished project up, I thought I would reflect on some of the big-picture questions for the project. One of the main questions I've been grappling with is whether or not I'm happy with what I've created. When I look back on all the things I didn't include or couldn't finish, I'm slightly disappointed but I know that there was no way at the outset of the project for me to anticipate many of the lessons I've learned about authoring this kind of work. Each phase of the project was incredibly insightful into the reality of making webcomics, and while my finished project isn't quite where I had envisioned it to be, I think my understanding of the medium, the process, and the rhetoric are far beyond what I anticipated being able to glean from this experience. To review these lessons and disappointments in a more structured way, I'm going to review them in the chronological phases of the project, beginning with the interface design.

### Interface

I think this was my most successful phase of the project by far. I'm very happy with the design. I think it feels modern and interesting while also working in the light and dark motif that I've woven throughout the project. If I had to say which portion of the project I was most nervous about at the outset of this project, graphic design would have been my answer because I have the least amount of experience in this field compared to writing and programming. I think that the unexpected success here in the interface design can be attributed to my reliance on pre-created templates and on the expertise of others to guide my design. In this phase of the project, I was determined not to reinvent the wheel because I had made previous mistakes in other projects where I tried to design websites from the ground up and it went very poorly. I knew that I would need to customize existing designs and ask for help, which allowed me to combine multiple good ideas and feedback to create a more refined product. To tie in my reflection from last month, I think this is an essential part of working in webcomics because its impossible for one person to be a master at graphic design, writing, and programming and use those skills to their full extent over the course of the project. Most webcomic authors have one really well-developed skill that they leverage to make their comic distinct and engaging, and then either shore up their weaknesses in other areas through collaboration or let other features fall to the wayside. By relying on other resources for graphic design, I successfully freed myself up to focus on programming or writing and created a pretty decent interface that did all the work I needed it to do.

### Writing

On the flip side of the interface success, I think my greatest failure was definitely writing the narrative. I mistakenly thought that the writing would be the keystone of the project, since I didn't have the illustration skills to draw a real comic. I was relying on the idea that my success at other areas of writing would have prepared me for a long-form creative writing project but I was mistaken. The narrative is the weakest portion of the project not only due to my lack of skill in the area, but also because I simply didn't have the time to work on the narrative to the full extent that I needed to. A one-month writing sprint is a great way to generate a lot of content and ideas, but not a great way to get a finished project. In retrospect, I think that maybe adapting a work in the public domain for a web format or possibly remixing some other work could have been much more successful, because I could lean into the strengths of the previous work and focus on adding my own details and revisions without creating all the content myself. 

### Programming

The programming was by far the easiest portion of the project since this is the area I have the most experience in. Admittedly, I have the most difficult portion of development coming up, which is creating that interactive map, but I already know how to get it done and what libraries to use to accomplish it. If I were to do this project over again, I would definitely focus less on writing and more on programming because its the skill set I'm most comfortable and accomplished in. Creating fun interactive pieces, linking the pages together in convoluted ways or focusing more on the infinite canvas could have created a much more interesting outcome for this project in hindsight. However, I think I had to run into all my hubris in the writing phase in order to fully understand the economy of labor that goes into webcomics to come to these conclusions. Between the constraints of time and talent, I don't think I was ever going to create a literary masterpiece; however, if I had known to lean into one specific skill and be more open to collaboration and remix, this project might have been a more successful end product. 

Overall, I'm content with where this project ended up. Mostly, because I know I couldn't have done much better without some form of superhuman foresight. I did the best I could do with the plan I created at the beginning of the semester, and I have a largely successful proof of concept to show for it. When I go to write my critical paper in the spring, I think one of the big insights I have now that I'm almost done will definitely be focused on the economy of labor during the project. I also think that my initial five benchmarks (interface design, interactivity, infinite canvas, movement, experimentation) are not necessarily aspects that all need to be present in a successful comic. I think that picking and choosing which you can do very well based on what features your comic will lean into is much smarter than trying to do all of them poorly. I would also add experience, time, and collaboration as new features to add to that list, in order to look at the production side of the piece and analyze the resources that go into webcomics. 